When a violation occurs at the moment we've configured the ports to shut down.
So Shope port security shows us that the security action when there's a violation is to shut the port
down.
So as an example if we change the MAC address of the first router to some other valley it's safe for
an error or disable message is displayed.
And the port is put into a disabled state and that was caused by the MAC address being the lint on the
port.
So now shoyu interface status shows us
that the porters are disabled.
The problem here is that you would have to manually re-enable that port which causes a large administrative
overhead.
So rather than doing that you can go into a global configuration mode on the switch and use the error
disable recovery command to specify a cause and a recovery value.
So there are multiple causes here but the one that we're looking for is the one port security violation
and then we could say would disable recovery interval and specify an interval for recovery.
So I'll go into gigabit 00 shut the port down and then no shut it will send some traffic from this to
on port one to the other Rodda.
And what we should see is that an error disable message takes place.
When a security violation occurs
let's confirm or can fake
the moment.
Traffic is failing and now we get a disable violation taking place.
Support has gone down.
But what I'll do know is configure the MAC address to what it should be and then I'll do a continuous
ping and hopefully off for a while.
That should start succeeding.
So notice the porters not come up again after 30 seconds.
Pings are still failing but have to wait for spinning tree and other protocols to converge.
And again I'm impatient to speed up the video see that you don't have to wait for the entire process
to take place.
But there you go.
Notice the pings started succeeding scrolling up.
We had an error disable message because there was a port security violation caused by this MAC address
port went down.
But then there was an error recovery where the switch attempted to recover from the port security violation
error disable on gigabit 00 and the port came up.
So it succeeded but if I changed the MAC address again
era cauce port violation
set it back to what it should be.
While we waiting for it to recover show port security at the moment a security violation has occurred
on gigabit 00
we can see the last MAC address learnt because of the security violation.
The port is shut down at the moment but now the port was shut down.
When I showed the output but now it's recovering.
So if I do the command again I can see it as an example that the port has gone up.
So do the command again.
We can see the port has come up again.
There's no security violation on this port
so that's a nice way to recover from a shutdown through port security.
You sticky in this example to configure MAC addresses and we can do an automatic recovery by using the
disable global configuration Command saying recovery causes port security violation and it's going to
take 30 seconds before it tries to recover.
You could obviously set that to a larger number but as an example if a use by mistake connected the
wrong device to the port the traffic would be blocked and a log message would be generated.
But if they then connected the right device to the port you wouldn't have to telnet to the switch as
an example and re-enabled port it would automatically be enabled.